Algorithm/Steps:
1. Initialize Game:
• Construct a list that replicates the Monopoly board with properties, utilities, and
unique space such as "Chance" or "Community Chest."
• Initialize Player Attributes: Starting amount of money, current position on the
board, and possession of different properties.
2. Player Movements:
• Simulate roll of two dice for each player and move him/her forward based upon
sum rolled.
• Upon landing on a property:
o If it is an unowned property, use the decision-making function that determines
whether to purchase it or not and must consider the cash available and expected
returns in terms of rent.
now If the property is owned by some other player, then the player has to pay his
rent in accordance with the value of the rent of the property.
3. Decision-Making Function:
For each turn, determine the following:
no Buy property but consider all conditions from the cash in hand, possible income
from rent as well as strategic value of having properties in a specific color group.
no Sell or mortgage property when the players' cash reserves are at dangerously
low levels, if for example to make some new rent payments to not have to declare
bankruptcy.
no Trade with other players to complete color sets or cash in on improved cash
flow.
No Construct houses or hotels on the properties if a player owns all of the
properties in a color group; consider construction costs versus additional revenue
when collecting rents.
4. Include Probability Computation:
• Determine the probability of landing on each property based on the number of
steps from a specific player's current position and locations on the board that the
player is most likely to visit, such as railroads.
• Attach these probabilities to find out how much the bid for purchasing each one of
the houses would be.
5. Recursive Simulations:
• Repeat steps 2 to 4 for all players and play turn after turn until one player wins
because of the bankruptcy of the other players.
• Note down the net worth of the players, houses they own, and cash the player
holds, and it will result in which player has won.
6. Strategy Analysis
• Play a few games under different strategies, such as buying more properties, and
avoid accumulating much cash.
• Compare the results from multiple games. Will a pattern emerge that results in a
better performance for comparing which strategy has a higher probable winning
chance.
